2.9 Technical Proposal

 Proposal s derived from the word “propose” which

means to suggest, to offer a solution, or to forward o

newidea.

Proposal is an act of proposing, or anything proposed.

It is a form of business letter or a formal report

written to draw the attention of the public to any

issue.

 Proposal is nothing but a way to sell one’s ideas.

¥ The main objective of writing a proposal is persuasion.

¥ Itis the first step towards a new business.

 The aim of a proposal s to bring new benefits to the
organization and it may be used within as well as
outside the organization.

AN

Types of Proposal

1. Solicited Proposals: A proposal which is written in
response to somebody’s request.

2. Unsolicited Proposals: An unsolicited proposal is one
sent to someone, even though they have not asked
forit.

3. Internal Proposal
organization.

4. External Proposal: Deal with the people outside the
organization

5. Formal Proposal: This is the type of long proposal
with detail discussion.

6. Informal Proposal: In this category comes short
proposal including small projects and topics

Address to reader within an

Structure of Proposal Writing:

1. Title page : It contains the title of the proposal, the
name of the person or organization to whom the
proposal is being submitted, the name of the
proposal writer and the date.

2. Table of contents : It provides the readers an overall
view of the proposal.

3. List of figures : It includes a list of tables, graphs,
figures, charts used in the proposal.

4. Abstract/Summary : It highlights the major points of
the proposal.

5. Methodology : It summarizes the proposed methods
of data collection and the procedure for investigating
the problem.

6. Introduction : It gives the background, states the
purpose, and discusses the scope.

7. Statement of problem : It contains an objective
description of the problem.

8. Proposed plan and activities

9. Recommendations : It discusses the ways to solve
the problem.

10

10. Conclusion : It presents the final summary of the
proposal
